# IDS 706 Individual Project 1

This repository is for IDS706 individual project 1. 



## Purpose 
This repository employs Pandas to perform statistical analysis and generate visualizations for the "Cars.csv" dataset. The dataset "Auto.csv" comprises various variables, including mpg, weight, year, origin, acceleration, and more.

The `describe_dataset()` function is used to present general statistics, encompassing metrics such as mean, count, standard deviation, and more.

Additionally, the visualizations produced allow for an in-depth analysis of the correlation between weight and mpg, as well as weight and acceleration, concerning their respective origins or years. Both scatter plots and fitted plots, which incorporate the line of best fit, are included to provide a more comprehensive understanding of the data.

## Important Things included are:
- ``.devcontainer`` includes a Dockerfile and devcontainer.json.
                The 'Dockerfile' within this folder specifies how the container should be built

- ``workflows`` includes install.yml, test.yml, format.yml, lint.yml, deploy.yml, and generate_and_push.yml. These are the configuration files for setting up automated build, test, and deployment pipelines

- ``.gitignore`` is used to specify which files or directories should be excluded from version control when using Git.

- ``Makefile`` is a configuration file used in Unix-based systems for automating tasks and building software. It contains instructions and dependencies for compiling code, running tests, and other development tasks.

- ``README.md`` is the instruction file for the readers.

- ``requirements.txt`` is to specify the dependencies (libraries and packages) required to run the project.
  
- ``project1`` folder includes the main files for this project. It includes a ``desc_stats.ipynb`` jupyter notebook and 4 python files:``main.py``,``lib.py``,``test_main.py``,``test_lib.py``. It also includes the investigated dataset ``Cars.csv``.

        - ``desc_stats.ipynb`` is a jupyter notebook that includes the scratch notes for creating the functions. It also displays the plots created.
  
        - ``main.py`` is a Python file. This specific main.py includes features of importing the pandas package and utilizing pandas to visualize the dataset Auto.csv.
  
        - ``test_main.py`` is a test file for main.py.
  
        - ``lib.py`` includes all the written functions for describing statistics and visualizing data in Auto.csv
  
        - ``test_lib.py`` is a test file for lib.py.
  
        - ``Auto.csv`` is the dataset used in this project. It contains variables such as mpg, acceleration, weight, origin, and year etc. 

- ``scatter_mpg.png`` ``fitted_mpg.png`` ``scatter_acc.png`` ``fitted_acc.png`` are the automatically saved plots generated by the functions. They are saved in png format.
  
- ``output.pdf`` displays the detailed output from running main.py
